---
title: How To Use The Framework
layout: page
---

## Overview

This framework will provide a budget outline for any given organizations
IT and Cybersecurity company needs based on three budget tiers: high,
medium, and low. This framework will outline some of the mitigation
tactics within existing frameworks and provide solutions through a
framework and the mentioned budget tiers.

This framework is not meant to take the place of any existing frameworks
or guidelines an organization has in place; instead, it is meant to
provide insight into possible Cybersecurity/IT necessities and how to
include them within day-to-day operations or to use with an already
established framework within an organization.

The budgets provided within this framework are for the reader to gain
insight on how much it will cost to mitigate the outlined
Cybersecurity/IT case study/problem. These budgets are for knowledge
purposes and are not to be taken as mandatory assignments per each case
study.

## Using the Visualizer

The creators of this framework offer an Excel spreadsheet to help all
stakeholders understand the reporting process. The following figure
shows the “Security” dimension with pre-populated data.

Please note that the visualizer is just a tool. It is the consulting
party’s responsibility to use this tool correctly.

# **Liability**

This framework is voluntary not mandatory. All of the outlined
information is meant to be taken as suggestions and used as a means to
gain knowledge.

A consultant or owner who utilizes this framework shall do so with the
understanding that the framework cannot cover every single security or
infrastructure need. Security incidents, network outages, and “acts of
God” will happen even in the most robust networks. Liability is waived
for the creators of this framework. If this framework is used by a
consultant, it is assumed that the consulting party should have their
client sign a waiver for their own liabilities.

Finally, it is the responsibility of the party who uses this framework
to ensure responsible usage of the principles described here. Failure to
implement this faithfully or responsibly is the sole responsibility of
said party, not the creators.

Further, said party is responsible for creating any liability waivers
for any processes that they are performing which exist outside the scope
of this document; such procedures include specific survey questions,
recommendations, or implementation. The authors recommend that the party
who uses this framework create a liability waiver, with the help of
legal consultation, prior to the engagement. This includes any
preliminary work, such as network scans or employee questionnaire.
